And I will kind of
Sure.
Okay. [Clears throat]. Since this is the first meeting of 2024, I think it would be appropriate for everyone to go around and just introduce themselves and who they're with.
If that's okay. We will start with Kira.
Kira Gomez: Hey everyone, Kira Gomez, I'm with the Migrant Farm Worker Division of Colorado Legal Services.
Jennifer Roger: Hi. Jennifer Roger, also with the Farmer Division of Colorado Legal Services.
Betty Velasquez: I am Betty Velasquez, with Pledge Protect [inaudible] Network.
Dan Vogle: And I'm Dan Vogle, director at Rocky Mountain Farmers Union.
Morning everybody. [Inaudible name], Department of Agriculture.
Online, let's go with Hunter. Start with you.
Hunter Knapp: Hunter Knapp, Development Director for Project Protect Food Systems Workers.
Kristina?
Kristina Rosett: Kristina Rosett, Colorado Department of Labor and Employment.
I know it says Michael, but it's not Michael. It's Eric, I believe, right?
You're muted.
Eric Yohe: I'm Eric Yohe with the Colorado Department of Labor and Employment.
Thank you. Griselda?
Griselda: Hi, my name is Griselda. I'm the interpreter.
Galen?
Galen Wallace: Galen Wallace, farm worker with Tabbot Farms.
I don't see anybody else online. Is there anybody else that I missed?
Yeah, David.
Jove Pechako of Pechako Farms.
Hi, Jove.
David Herald: David Herald of Tuxedo Farms.
Good morning, David. Didn't see you all. Thank you.
I think the first order of business, we need to.
Kristina: Oh sorry we have another CDLE attendee, Carrie.
Oh, sorry. I can't see everyone on the screen.
Carrie Chesney: Sorry. Hi, Carrie. I'm in with CDLE. I administer the H2A program throughout the state.
Hey Carrie, nice to see you.
Carrie Chensey: Hey, nice to see you.
Hunter Knapp: And I believe we have a member of the public who just joined on Zoom as well, Trent Taylor.
Trent, did you want to introduce yourself?
You're muted, Trent.
Trent Taylor: It is Trent Taylor. I am with Colorado Legal Services, Migrant Farm Worker division.
Welcome, Trent.
Trent Taylor: Thank you.
So we do have the agenda up. The first order of business is the election or the appointment of officers for 2024.
We didn't do that at the last meeting. I think it's appropriate since it's the first in person meeting.
Okay. Well, I, I nominate our current chairs [chuckle] to continue, or our last year's chairs to continue, if I can.
I second that motion. Yeah.
If I can do both. We do want it one at a time or? What do you use your preference?
We can do both right?
Either, I mean, I'm more than happy to continue also I feel like I've dropped the ball a fair amount. So,
So I guess happy to as long as I'm messing on things down. More than happy and been really happy to work with Betty.
Betty Velasquez: Yeah. I think we make a good team. We can do it togeher if you want.
Is there anybody else that's interested in the chair position?
Don't all jump at once.
If you have a nomination, do we have a second?
Hunter I believe so.
Hunter has it. Okay.
Anyone else? Call for your vote.
All in favor?
Aye. [multiple people]
Any opposed? Okay, so Dan and I will co-chair for 2024. Again, thank you. For your confidence.
We need the appointment of the wages subcommittee chair. Nominations for the wages subcommittee chair.
I would like nominate Jennifer Rodriguez.
Jennifer Rodriguez: Oh, thank you.
We have a nomination to Jennifer. I will second that motion. Any other and anyone else interested in that chair position?
Okay. I'm hearing none, all in favor?
Aye [multiple people]
Okay, any opposed? Okay, congratulations Jennifer.
We now onto appointments of the labor condition subcommittee chair.
[Inaudible discussion]
I will nominate Kiara as - No? No one's doing it.
Kiara: I know, but anyone else?
Well, I nominated Dan second. Any further discussion or any other? Anybody else interested in that chair position?
Okay, all in favor?
Aye. [multiple people]
Any opposed?
Okay, congratulations Kiara.
Did you hear back from the subcommittee?
Sure we confirmed on Friday and I sent a reminder this morning.
Okay.
Yep.
So yeah, I guess the next thing on here was just to kind of go over the/ have a review of the open meetings laws.
I actually don't know if we have anybody that's prepared to speak out on that or anything at this point.
Kristina, I think you had the open meetings. You shared that with us the first meeting that we had.Do you have the document handy?
Kristina Rosett: Not right at my fingertips, but I could probably find one. The one thing I would emphasize is trying to get stuff in the the shared drive for and in advance of the meetings that the public is able to access, things like the agenda.
But yeah, let me look and see if I can find the resources that we initially shared too.
Thank you. [Clears throat]
Yeah, maybe that goes back into the Ag Work, the procedures discussion to maybe we can talk a little bit more, too, for
you know, if you and I have deadlines in the week before or the other chairs that have deadline for the week before or something like that and then get it in the drive and.
Sure.
Cause if not, I'll wait until I'm driving up here at every red stop light to try to look.
[Laughter].
Yeah, yeah, right.
Did anybody have any other questions? At this point, or maybe we can. Bookmark this for another time to discuss a little bit more.
I think sunshine laws are always kind of tricky to navigate and feel like we're being effective while being compliant.
We wanted to provide some space for discussion.
So for the agenda, we kind of struggled with this because the sunshine law. It's been a little difficult to navigate.
So I guess my question to the group is what would be the pleasures if we create a draft and send it out to everyone or have Kristina or someone or Aldo send it out to everyone and we will add to it?
What would be the best way to navigate the agenda?
Well, cuz we can do a shared Google doc, is that allowed?
I believe so. Kristina is that allowed if we put it on the shared drive?
Yeah, I mean, I again, I can't give like specific advice about, the law, but, that's what I would recommend is to just create a shared drive and then as long as again it's in a shared folder it's accessible on our website they get links to it.
And I wanna suggest creating those agenda documents in that shared drive there will be a sub-folder like this for each of the meetings.
So after this meeting, I'll create the one for March.
And then if we create just a shared Google Doc for the agenda, any communications should contained in that Google Doc.
And then, as far as my understanding of the open records laws, that will be open to the public the whole time.
So Hunter, not to add any more to your workload, but would it be would it be possible for you to add agendas for the month just to create create the doc for the month?
Yeah.
And then we can just add to it and have one each subcommittee as well.
That is not a problem at all. I can definitely do that. With sort of a blank template agenda.
I think that makes sense. I think the only modification I would suggest is something along the lines like it's we put that as like a draft agenda right,
because if everybody can add to it, then maybe like at some point at the very beginning of each meeting we like, accepted or whatever just because
Yeah.
since anybody can add it any time, it's like, I don't know, I feel like the person who's running the meeting should still kind of go over and make sure that it's like
And we should adopt it
Adopt it, make it consistent procedurally.
And, You're right. Like, like, maybe a deadline like this day before the meeting have all your input in so that everyone knows that's the last day to add and that gives the chairs enough time to review and prepare accordingly,
So, procedurally we will adopt or we will, approve the agenda part of the meeting.
Yeah, okay.
Okay. That makes it part -
Prior to the meeting or?
It has to be okay prior.
Okay, yeah, like you said.
Sound okay?
Yeah, no, sounds good.
Thank you, And I recall kind of looking at open meetings rules. If it's just on like basic logistics.
There can be some member to member discussion. I think since this will be on a shared doc, if it's open to the public, there can be some back and forth with comments.
In there as well. Good. I think we'll still want to kind of strike that balance of not having too much.
Narrative necessarily within that document as we're. Looking to set it and we can always You know.
Add to the agenda. Actually, to, you know, at the beginning of the meeting, we need to.
So.
Okay.
We can't see everybody who's on. Can you let us know someone if, if you do say the local get on?
Okay. Alright with that unless there's any further discussion on open meetings I'll pass it back to Betty for the next bullet point.
We wanted to review the statutes, but I don't know if that's, are we prepared to do that today or do we want to move on to the let's set this the the structure of the each sub committee and then we can go back or how do you want to do this?
Sure, yeah, and we can. We should have in the document, you know, at least. Link to the to the bill itself.
I don't know how to, you know, how deep we wanna go into. The review of our charge and you know the different provisions in there.
I think I'd like to jump ahead to go ahead and get the subcommittees set and then we can go into, okay, what did we cover this last year and then really get into the. Okay, what did we cover this last year and then really get into the.
Okay. So for the wages of committee who would be interested we have our chair who would be interested in serving on that committee.
I'm looking.
I will definitely plan to serve on the committee and be it. Those subcommittee meanings every week? Are there any other responsibilities attached?
Okay. Oh. Well, no, just I think to go and participate, I mean at this point unless we designate like I mean as we go there might be certain things that people can, you know.
Take on like some particular component. But at this point now
I'll serve a subcommittee.
John.
Yeah, I plan on making both of them.
Same here.
I do too. Thank you. That was Gailen. To all of us, Galen, Benny and Damn, So that everybody very much except for David.
What about David? He's here, right?
Yeah, I'll do what I can. I, I'm really. Frustrated my time here is likely limited.
I've been drafting a letter. Resignation slash. Frustration to both the governor and Kate.
Really feeling like this is a waste of my time. And
Yeah, I'll leave it at that, but I'm still a member and I'll.
I'll be here when I'm here and we'll. We'll see how that goes.
Labor conditions, you want to take them? Okay. Okay. So, there's so many members.
Yeah. Anyone interested in signing up for the labor condition subcommittee. I think Dan mentioned he'd be on both.
I'd like to be able to. Jen, okay. Anyone else for labor conditions? I think maybe hunters said both, but I might have heard wrong.
I did, yes, that's correct.
I'll do it.
Oh, thanks. Joe, thank you. Okay. I think that's pretty good. Everybody.
And Betty, Alan, Jennifer, and Joe. Okay, you just need to find out from a little phone, I guess.
This should be pulled up the report to see what we ended up with on the recommendation to move forward. Okay.
Yeah, and at some point I would like to maybe speak a little bit to I'm feeling I've had some of the same frustrations that David has had.
Around. I'm still a little confused. The role of the report and the utility of it.
And, you know, are there things as a committee we could do to. To make sure that you know the work we put in is
Is a resource for. Our legislature and such. We're not just working in our 7 person backing.
Or whatever we have here. And Christina, you have a hand up.
Yeah, and not to go off topic. I just wanted to let you guys know I had a couple updates on things you asked for from last time and wanted to give a you know an introduction for the folks from CDL that are new members to this meeting.
So, just whatever you want to fit me into the agenda, calling me for that.
That was a good time to see now. Just go ahead and jump in.
Okay, so as I, I think I mentioned last time, I have, Eric.
Yo, we hear, he'll be taking on, the. Liaison role while I'm out on maternity leave.
So likely, he'll be the face that you see the next few months. And if there's any like logistical stuff that you guys are discussing, you can continue to, you know, keep me on the emails, but add him in as well so he can help out.
I've given him kind of the the background about. The like interpreter, the posting of the meeting schedule on our website that kind of stuff.
So should be good there. I also have Kerry Owen here. I invited her after.
There was an ask last time for kind of follow up about the status of the prevailing practice and wage surveys.
And she was able to attend today. So I just invited her to. Just speak on that.
Another couple things. There was talking, talk about the. Wage calculator.
That that CDA puts together or puts up on their. Workers.
Services Program website and we worked with them to get a 2024 updated one so You'll find that on.
The CD's website. On the bottom. The link that I. Just put in the chat.
Title wage calculator. It's updated for 2024. And hearing kind of the discussion last time, we're also working on.
Updating that calculator so that there's another feature to. Using your the number of employees you have this year versus last year and during different seasons to.
Determine if you're smaller, highly seasonal, so state 2 and 4. A resource on that.
And then the other piece was, oh, a couple of other things. We also are working on at your suggestion a template notice for highly seasonal employers to provide 2 employees.
So again, more to come. And then finally in the.
Sub folder for the for today's meeting you'll find a copy of the translated committee report.
Into Spanish. A PDF and a Word document. So if you have questions on any of those kind of specific things I ran through, we can.
Go through them but if there's time for carry to chime in it might be nice to to get her so she can get on her way for the rest of the day.
Oh yeah, thank you, Christina. So I just wanted to give a quick update. I know we talked about the surveys and how they've been in works for quite a bit now.
So, we finalized the employer practice survey. So I incorporated your guys' suggestions. I know you had Christina had to email some suggestions of questions to ask.
So we incorporated that. I had sent out the survey to a couple of my colleagues at different state agencies just to get who work with ag employers to get an idea of, you know, how does this look and.
Kind of got on, on the subject of redundancy and duplication. So it seems that there are already some surveys out there to Colorado producers and ag employers.
So for the sake of redundancy and duplication, I discovered I talked to you USDA well, we discovered we're allowed to partner with state agencies to conduct these inspections.
And I know, for example, let's say CSU, They conduct surveys to ag employers and producers.
And again, I know how as an ag, employer, producer, having to do surveys in general, you know, it just takes a lot of time and then having to do surveys that are the same question as another survey you just took is not very highly likely that they're going to complete those surveys.
So we're actually now going to pivot and even though we've completed these surveys, we're pivoting to work with CSU Extension, hopefully, in a collaboration of just incorporating the surveys that they've already created.
To include some of the requirements that are needed specifically for the H 2 8 questions in the surveys to disseminate the surveys through CSU.
So that's just a very early stage. Right now I know that my point of contact is gearing up for his conference at the end of the month.
That's happening 28 to CFPGA conference. So he's pretty busy.
So we plan on meeting early March to get this going. It just makes more sense to have an agency who has that experience that has been doing it consistently.
To collaborate with CDL on these surveys. Since like I said, we don't wanna send out multiple surveys to growers and producers that has the same questions as surveys that they just took from a different agency.
So we wanna eliminate that duplication and redundancy. But I still plan to include all the suggestions and things that you guys, you know, submitted to include in those surveys that hopefully we're going to collaborate with CSU on.
That's where we're at. Of course.
You know, yeah, can ask a question, Kerry. So just to clarify, so when you talk about redundancy, so if there's like.
Similar questions in your survey that are currently in the survey that USCO or CSU extension is doing your You're not taking it out of your survey.
You're just Are you combining your survey with the CSU extension survey? And who's sending it out?
Right, good question. I think so. Yeah, no, that's a great question. I think that this is very preliminary.
So I think that's what we're gonna discuss and march to figure out is it something that is it going to have the face of CSU extension on these surveys and we're just incorporating our questions into that.
Or is it just gonna be a brand new survey that has, you know, that's from the Department of Labor, but that CSSU extension is helping with.
So I'm not quite sure yet. Like I said, it's very preliminary. But so also I was made of where to and I just wanna make sure it was there a survey create did this committee create a survey as well?
Or is that a different committee that created a survey? So I got word that a committee and act committee was also created a survey.
So I just wanna also make sure, you know, if somebody else is doing things that I'm not overstepping or.
The duplication of anything like that. Wasn't this committee? Good.
It was this group. The questions we came up with? Right, the questions we had is for you to.
Oh, no, that's just the questions that you, oh, okay, okay. So maybe, maybe they were just, they misunderstood.
But there's no, yeah. Yeah. Okay, but I would.
Cause the person was telling me that there was a whole other survey. And I was like, well, I don't think so.
So I just wanted to double.
Gary, this is Dan, and there is another survey that Rockyman Farmers Union with, the Colorado Employee Ownership Office.
Okay.
Another partner so have been working on. We've been developing a pilot for an employee owned cooperative.
Okay, maybe that's what they were
For folks that would provide ag labor and there has been kind of a survey circulating out there for that and I think as Yeah, so as you as discussions happen in March.
If there's ways that we can. Get any of that important information answered through a single survey. We'd be more than.
It's being for your ownership office, but yeah.
I think that's best. I mean, I think Yeah, I think that if we have, you know, again, the capacity in which you guys can work with different state agencies like I just found out that.
You know, Department of Labor can work with other state agencies to implement these surveys. So I mean, again, for the sake of not.
Sending, so, duplicates to producers and having them answer a bunch of questions if we could create a survey that is you know centralized that'd be great but at least for the H twoA program requirements of having to do these surveys.
That is our next step is actually going to pivot and see if we can work with CSU who already again has the experience already has kind of a process for creating in.
Implementing these surveys. So again, March beginning of March, that's what we're looking at to to get that process and collaboration going.
Okay, I thank you. I was just trying to confirm because I know you're the mandate for the survey.
I think it goes beyond the HTA program. Right for the state. To do these prevailing ways surveys.
But wanna make sure that the whatever mandate that you all have to do it. Like if you even if you're combining it with the CSU, one that it's still gonna be in compliance with the.
So I Absolutely. Yeah. So yeah, we have, yeah, we have to have like certain questions and things, you know, I mean, the prevailing.
The employer practice survey is pretty open, flexible to include whatever, you know, we just, we just wanna, we have to make it.
Relate to the H to A program, right? So subsistence, reimbursement, travel, reimbursement, that kind of thing, you know, do you provide that?
What is your kind of practice surveys as a ag employer so we can effectively see how they HCA program should be ran, right?
The the PRACT the wage surveys are more specific. You know, they do it definitely have those specific questions that we have to.
A bye-bye, but the employer practice survey is pretty open, but the only for mine, I mean, the only band date that I get it from is through the H 2 A program.
Hi, Right.
You know, through my foreign labor certification grant that tells me I need to do the surveys. So I don't know if it's listed anywhere else.
It might be, but specifically for the HWA program, it's part of that porn labor certification program that we do the surveys.
So it's the prevailing practice survey that's going to be done at the beginning of March.
And the wage survey is different timeline.
Well, so I want to talk about both. I want to see if CSU can do both.
I might as well, right? If they're willing to do these surveys. So the conversation in March is going to be surrounded for both.
Would be both the employer practice survey and the wage survey.
There is a small questionnaire that might be presented at our Colorado Food and Vegetable Association.
Annual meeting it'll be interactive so kind of be an in person thing only done at the meeting itself.
Okay.
It's just for producers only and How the laws affected our operations and so forth. But that's all it focuses on.
It doesn't really focus on any of the points that you just mentioned. So. It was put together by this.
Okay.
Committee.
Okay, so those are the questions that we were talking about. That you guys had suggested to incorporate into the, and to the survey that I was creating, correct?
Or is that completely different at different survey?
Committee though Joe sorry maybe I miss
Well, I thought it was. Yeah, it was just a short list of questions that was passed by us.
Okay, oh you're right, right, right. Just send question.
Okay. Yeah, and I, okay, yeah, I mean, I can't, you know, if anybody else wants to create surveys, different agencies, I mean that's, you know, that's fine, but I, you know, this is just specifically for the HTTP program that I hopefully will work with Adrian Carton.
I mean, he's the one, he's my point of Yeah. Okay.
Yeah, Adrian will be doing this. The question and answer on that short one. It's no, I don't think.
Okay. So maybe we can include that if that's already being implemented in the data that we get.
But yes, this is all, this is all like preliminary, like I said, I'm meeting with Adrian at the beginning of March to go over this process of collaborating with CDL and CSU on these surveys.
But the whole point is to, you know, not duplicate it in these surveys, you know, to make sure that the producers aren't getting overwhelmed with the same kind of questions and the same kind of surveys.
So. Hopefully we can streamline it. That's the goal.
Yeah, I think the overall question too is just how do we actually get trusted information from ag workers is the biggest riddle so Maybe that's another area focus that we can.
Continue to explore this coming year or 2 of How do we build the canon for how we can agree on what we accept as far as?
You know, really being able to truly hear the workers voices, I think the biggest goal here. Well, to get.
To get it out too. Oh, workers, right? To the, yeah, to not the small percentage of just H.
No.
Well, yeah, so the employer practice survey in the in the prevailing wage surveys are not for workers or for the employers and it's for all ag employers because they're trying to see how does normal add compared to the H 2 A program right and are they similar and is the H twoA program.
Running effectively compared to just non H 2 A. Ag work. So that's the focus of the goals or sorry of the surveys through the H 2 A program.
So I don't know if that's in line because it doesn't go to work or is it just goes to employers?
Yeah. Along that line, Kerry, just for my information, is, does the prevailing wage survey and other information you gather.
Does that help inform the
Absolutely. Yeah, so that's yeah, that's
The adverse effect wage rate survey. I mean, is that part of this one of the same or is it?
Okay.
No, that's exactly it. So part of that, those, the prevailing wage surveys is to help determine the appropriate A work.
For Colorado or for other states. So but the thing is that we have to have enough Responses for it to matter.
Like if we only receive 2 responses, I wouldn't even be able to submit them. It wouldn't be enough data.
To for them to look into that. So I mean that's why streamlining it and not duplicating, you know, these surveys to hopefully get these employers to respond, you know, to a survey is key.
But yeah, it does. It does it absolutely. Impacts how the HCA program is run, including the program.
Of what you know the employer has to do with reimbursement. Travel and then the the wage.
So it's key these these here surveys are key for over ag employers for especially for H 2 A program but
So what I'm hearing is that in order to get more responses and have less. Survey fatigue.
Your hope is to kind of combine a few of these different surveys to have one. Clear way to really try to get as much information as possible.
This survey, let's say, may have 20 questions. 10 may just have to do with You know, the essential questions you need for H 2 A.
I'm assuming that the other 10 and out in 4. What you need out of HTA because those.
Questions are preordained as far as What, affects the address page or they were because.
The reason why I ask is I know there's been a lot of discussion of how do we reform the A we're survey so.
It's more accurate when it comes to, you know, job classifications and other things, especially for a state like Colorado where do you have a small crew you might have folks doing a lot of different Everybody's a skilled worker, but you might have.
Folks doing different skills all under kind of the same smaller group. Does that make sense as a question?
Yeah, and so And again, I can't answer that. Just because I haven't had the conversation yet with CSU to figure out but I mean the idea would be to streamline I mean that is the idea to Now I don't know if incorporating other agencies, surveys onto this one survey is the route.
That we would go or if it just would be a separate like this is Cdl's, you know, survey because this is specifically for the program requirements that I'm just collaborating with CSU to do it.
Through. So I don't know yet, but that's something that I will. Keep in mind and bring up on what makes sense.
Going forward with what the surveys.
Okay, so yeah, I guess what I'm trying to drill down to is
Yes. Yes.
Your questions are your questions and those are what inform your specific. If we are adding other questions, that's just to get broader information.
And general for number of reasons, but not necessarily to affect the A one.
Yeah, I wouldn't like I wouldn't corporate that in my Right, I would incorporate that into my data to send a USDL.
Right? If it's not relevant to the specific questions pertaining to like H 2 A and how it affects the H 2 A program.
Thank you for
And such. I mean, it could be included, but it's not going to be, it's not going to be anything on data that I would submit to you.
It would just be the specific questions that. We have regarding H 2 A and H. Yeah.
Can you share the timeline? I guess as far as so if it's completed in March, like what is the?
Well, wouldn't it go out and then when do you need have responses by and then when is the information?
So US doesn't really require like specific timeframes like, oh, you have to have surveys then by this time.
It's just throughout, you know, the year when you can get them done, get them done.
So ideally I would like to have everything at least implemented in Survey Centau by July one.
That would be ideal to have to have that at least completed and sent out by. One and again I don't know the process this is something that's extremely new.
Okay.
I don't know how long that takes and if we are working with CSU, you know, their availability and things look like.
But ideally that is the timeframe we're looking at.
How are they going to be sent out? Is it going to be electronic or paper or, you know, sometimes those mail, official mail type about, you know, you'll get, it seems like you'll get farmers and producers to respond better when it's looking more official in a paper form.
I know it's more expensive, but
What's
That's a great question. I think that's something we'd look at. I, you know, I'd want to, I'd want to get the experience of people who work with people have completed surveys of what is the most, yeah, popular way that.
Producers would respond if that is electronically or if it's physical. I mean, I don't see why we couldn't do both.
Oh, it's just, yeah, both would be good. It's just you, not sure David could attest to this emails.
Right.
We get so many. No, 200 a day and we're skipping through them and junk on so many that it especially July first you tend to pass them over.
Sort of what so does our administrators so When you get a paper, when you almost feel like you're obligated to do it.
Okay.
Okay, that's great feedback. Thank you, Joe.
That's all I had if anybody doesn't if there's any other questions.
Thank you. Yeah, thank you.
Thanks, Kerry.
So how do you all feel about going back up to the subcommittee structure, the areas of focus, possibly pulling up the root for and with the recommendations that we said we start talking about the recommendations for 2,024.
Some of the topics that we wanted to tackle in 2024. Hunter, can you pull out the final report and direct with the recommendations?
If that's the way the group wants to go at this point. Yeah, I mean, if possible, I might like to talk a little bit about the.
Talk about next steps with it.
You know, pulling up the statute. You know, it says that we are to . There
You know, by January one, the advisory committee shall report its progress findings and legislative recommendations to, you know, the 2 committees.
And I know we're technically doing that by emailing it to the 2 committees. But I will say that with the rush of the legislative session.
It's been my impression that
This isn't necessarily taking up. You know, it's not necessarily making the splash maybe that we would like.
I, I think, at least that I would potentially like is contributing to this and I wonder if.
It makes sense for us to request a a hearing to actually report things or if we want to.
Even though maybe we deliver it in January, maybe we invite the committees to an in person. Meeting somewhere in the state, you know.
On a farmer ranch with egg workers and other employers and stuff in June or something after the session. I'd love to just kind of explore a little bit of what our utility is.
And do we have control again?
Determine how we want to report this out and stuff because I think If we're doing this work, we do wanna.
In form the legislature and the administration and and including our you know our regulators as well you know the Yeah, I think this type of work is really valuable for rulemaking and everything else.
So. I maybe like to just buy a little bit of time for discussion there if we wanna. Talk any more about that.
Do you have my take and you or Betty tell me to shut up whatever you want. Is that.
Have the mercy room, how's that? I'm kidding.
Is the the way the bill was written. We had a business in whatever it was called committee.
Tel. Essentially the Senate and ad committee, we're gonna, we're gonna do this.
And they're gonna report not back to us. We're the ones who care enough to write the legislation, but we don't care enough.
To check back in in the future, somehow they deemed it useful to. Form a group. But have them then report so we've got Senate.
In house. Committees that didn't even ask for us to exist to begin with. Who are required to write a report too.
I don't know. I'm, I've learned a lot about politics since Senate Bill 2187.
And how our government functions but I've been thinking a lot lately that.
We've come, we've. Got together and and spend a lot of time and we produced something pretty useless in many ways from a lot of.
Standpoints anyway. And then we.
Put that out and from what I know. Through hearsay, but the, the add committees.
Have, have no awareness of its existence. I've spoken with legislators who said they wanted to talk more with me.
Who said they really care. Legislators who are part of the sponsorship of the bill. And yet there's no engagement.
There's been. Very, very little. Use gotten from what we provided. And I, you know, looking at a different perspective, which I still don't understand well, but the governor ultimately signed the bill.
And said, yep, this is useful for us. And we have CDLEE and CDA.
Yeah, and public funds going to. To this committee and I really feel that we're all. As a society, we're wasting.
Our own time but we're wasting taxpayer dollars having Aldo and Christina and Eric, etc.
Support us when when ultimately we're we're just kind of dead in the water and it's I don't know how we change it.
I don't know what we do. But it is extremely frustrating. To sit here. And and and feel like.
Just it's an absolute waste of time with 0 effectiveness.
Well, I was wondering if we couldn't go, I was wondering why didn't 2 or 3 of us get together or were requested to go and deliver the report in person and that way we could be there during the act committee hearing and be available for question and answer at least you know maybe one producer one employee 2 or 3 of the rest of us go there in person and be there and one of us deliver the the reported person that
way question and answer from that committee or whoever else might be there could we could do that it seems to be more effective that way in the deliverance.
Yeah, I think that's an option. This goes to 4 committees. It goes to the act committee in both chambers and it goes to business labor and tech committee in both chamber so it need to be Kind of like what when they have smart act hearings where they have you know a number of committees together.
I don't think it's out of the question to request a special hearing. To discuss. Ag labor in Colorado.
And I think either the chairs, you know, the 2 chairs and the two, s to present the full committee could present.
I do think it could get a little challenging if. All of a sudden they're putting together a number of experts and bringing in people and really politicizing things, but at the same time.
I do think personally I think it's valuable to to have these discussions as we move forward to evaluate what's working and what's not.
What needs to be changed? I think that was. Kind of the goal of this committee. Yeah, originally it was to provide ongoing recommendations and findings.
So It's, I don't think it's out of the question. I just, I think there's maybe some pitfalls to avoid too.
Right. And maybe that's a summer, you know, maybe that's scheduled as an interim summer committee, but then that.
Then all the people involved in Agger. A little busy that time here too, but Yeah, I mean, I guess I have questions about how.
How we do that? I guess how that would be done. It would have to be formal because it would have to be as a committee or speaking on behalf of the committee, not as an individual.
And so everybody comes here with their own. Ideas. Or, you know, agenda or thoughts or opinions and stuff.
And so. If we were going to be presenting to any of those committees. On behalf of this. Yeah, I think it would just be tricky.
And, but I imagine there's some kind of protocol. Right when they do wanna hear from committees.
Yeah, that's
I just, maybe you're more familiar with that. Colorado River drop task force they met all summer long.
They made recommendations. I'm pretty sure they had a hearing on it. I recall. So that's something we can explore because I agree that like We wanna avoid splintering off and all kind of.
Cause I, I could take it. This report down right now until they advocate based on my organization. And That's not gonna do the committee a favor.
That's gonna be our agenda, you know, so I think there's
Yeah, that's what I thought maybe a mix of us it would be more effective because you know when we're all there together we're at there as a committee and It's more about, in that sense, us working together instead of us working as individuals for our own.
Companies were doing our job. That we accepted to do and this committee. So for me it's different you know if I was there with with Dan, Jennifer and and and Hunter and we were there in person doing it we would I would not be you know, animate or vocal as I am, is when I'm there as an individual.
I be as a committee member as this committee member and be reflecting the the findings that are here in our report more than what I would be doing.
As an individual. Then if there was any question and answer, we could answer him as a group.
That's just kind of the way I feel about it.
Sounds like maybe before our next quarterly, we can do some research and present back just kind of.
How this works for other type of task force advisory committees. Best practices.
Yeah, I think that's a great idea. I would definitely appreciate your expertise in the political realm, Dan, in sort of figuring out.
How these sorts of things are normally conducted. How we could schedule one. You sort of alluded to the challenges with A July timing for this sort of meeting.
But we could start to plan it so we're ready. In terms of presenting some substantial recommendations, hopefully, with this next report.
How's that sound? We'll do it.
You've heard of that. Maybe that's the end of this discussion unless anyone else wants to mention anything on just Good.
The document we created, what
What we want to do with that instead of I mean. If I'm being clear like last year's work, what we want to do with that compared to what we want to do this coming year.
Is there any more discussion on? Ways we might wanna report out on
On the report itself or do we wanna wait until we do some research and I have a question that's kind of related to that what you're saying but also the last point like how do we learn what The feedback is if any 2 our report, I mean, I guess one of the things you're figuring out like, cause we make these recommendations and I, yeah, I really some of them are.
There's nothing to go with, but some of them, you know, we're saying like you should do a study, you should do this and this and like how do we What is the process in which we find out they're like, yeah, no, that's a great idea, but we're not, money for this or we need more information on this.
Like seems like, and so I don't know if that's part of what you were going to be looking into or if not like maybe that's something.
That we can add to it, right? Because like what, what were the, what was the response to this?
You know, it was like, and maybe it was just like nothing because they're, yeah, they're like, okay, thanks.
But if it was like. There was certain comments or criticisms or requests for more information or guidance or whatever, like that would be really helpful.
But So maybe that's 15. I guess that's a question for you. You submitted the report.
Did you get any feedback or do we do we know how we would hear any feedback?
I shared it with our legislative liaison, so I can ask her if there's like any process for that.
But yeah, she's the one that's directly in contact with those committees.
Thank you.
So she's gonna ask the.
And then I guess along the line of procedures too, I'd love to just. Have a little bit of discussion there was an email that kind of circulated for potentially bringing, inviting Ally Hill to present.
And there was, from what I recall, a little. Discussion on this process, how we How we.
How do we agree who we're gonna bring in or? Presenting at meetings, maybe open it up through discussion there if we're kind of setting up some.
Procedures that we're all comfortable with to make sure that we're working together.
Yeah, that was my comment and I just thought we needed like a group consensus like we do look at our subcommittees just to make sure everyone was on board and I know we could do that via email, which is why I suggested I don't know, meeting is super formal.
Everyone agrees with it. I think as long as everyone agrees on at this committee, I think we're okay.
And it was Joe or Galen who sent the email, right? The original one was David. Suggested inviting her to the meeting.
But yeah, it's like we can't really do that in email because of the sunshine. We have to have those discussions.
Here or like in a public forum. And make those decisions. So David, right? Is that right?
Yes. Yes, as long as, but I mean, if we have a public. Open Google Drive where we're setting an agenda.
Could somebody recommend inviting her and we all accept the agenda? Yeah, right. Yeah, I think you can.
So that's what you're talking about setting up a formal public process for. Having those discussions.
Want to talk a little bit about that and we can have that discussion here and then come to a. Consensus or
Oh, I would just argue. Back to the procedure topic that. I don't think we're prohibited from working.
Outside of these meetings. We if if we all said, yeah, okay, let's let's hear from Ali Hill in an email.
Let's invite her. And we upload that to the to the shared document we are Right, we are not restricted to.
Only doing our work.
Once a month, right? We, where there's not nowhere in the legislature law does that say you meet once a month.
We decided that we could meet once a year. We could meet once a day. We could meet once an hour.
We can email, we can get together. We just have to do it in front of the public. And so If we want to hamstring ourselves and say, well, we'll only do anything when we're all here, that that's.
Procedural. Thing of our own choosing if I'm not mistaken.
And, and so we had.
But. That that topic that. That.
Specific to Dan's. Let's talk about procedure. I think we need to resolve before we talk about.
Ali.
Well, go ahead.
I. Yeah, I was just gonna say that. I agree with sort of your framing of the potential for emails or things like the invitations.
I do think that would be easier to handle in a Google Doc so that we can have some sort of confirmation from people.
As we saw in response to your email. Not everyone responded. Promptly or at all.
And so if we don't have A response from an email, it's hard to confirm that sort of consensus.
We were talking about. But in general, I do agree that we don't need to be fearful of sending emails to each other as long as we do document them all in a public way.
So if we have a deadline of approving an agenda week before the meeting. And it's all on a Google Drive that's publicly available.
I mean, we can set that deadline and if we get 5 responses or 7 responses. That's the deadline.
So it's each person's responsibility if they wanna lay in to, cause we can always abstain from voting.
In any, you know, very meeting or anytime. So. If we just kind of set up a process that.
We're building out the agenda and we end the Everybody approves it the week beforehand. And if somebody says, hey, I wanna invite x person to do this and we have a single person say, I don't want them there, then they just can't be on the agenda.
And we can have that discussion during the next meeting and hammer it out. Does that seem fair as a process?
Well.
That makes it, I think. The thing that I was thinking about with, in specifically regarding Ali Hill.
I was.
Remembering what we had come up with in our recommendation that like we would not specifically like we wouldn't so that will work collaboratively to evaluate potential partners.
And to come up to an agreement with what sources will be considered reliable. And so I felt like. That was jumping the gun by like inviting.
That because we all hadn't talked and collaborated and agreed that she wouldn't be a.
Appropriate partner so I think it was it's the substantive matter or that she was being invited for but I think you're right like if that's something that he puts on an agenda that I could say that right and so that we could talk about the next meeting.
So I think process wise, I think you're what you should just some sense, but I just wanted them.
Put that up there. Because we did make that agreement earlier.
Alright.
The the deadline to have a agenda. Maybe I heard us talking about the agenda. I didn't hear we had a deadline Is that a new thing or was that discussed?
We're proposing that David so that we do have a structure for agendas for both this committee and for the subcommittee.
So if we have a week before the meeting. Will be the deadline to submit items to the agenda. And can test anything on there.
A week before the meeting. To add to the agenda and to contest anything? Yes.
I guess we should, how does everyone feel about that having? I share agenda and you have to the week before the meeting.
To add or contest anything on the agenda. Is everyone comfortable with that?
Yes. I am at least.
Joe Galen, David.
Yes, I'm comfortable with it.
And this is for all.
David Galen, are you okay with that or what are your thoughts?
It works for me.
The.
I'm getting I'm just sorry. I'm thinking through the right Although. You know, we don't have our other worker, I guess, Aldo does the best he can to get in here.
A, you know, sometimes is there, is he? Like we're kind of playing this in some ways.
It's a like they're our own rules and we decided to do this by consensus and that and now we're like well you know this guy and a week before and Some people are engaged and, you know, well, nobody answered the emails.
Like, I don't know, maybe we're just getting too deep into the.
We're, on some, you know, like. We're trying to rewrite Roberts books of rules or something and like some kind of art way.
And rules for ourselves that may maybe are gonna get in our own way. At some point but
Yeah, take that for what's worth. I think it's just kind of a still a thing to say that that's our rule and Right.
You know if I the day before the day of the agenda I see something on the agenda and I say oh well I don't like that.
You know, I, well, you didn't say it a week before, you know, I, and then I say, well, I don't like, but we shouldn't be doing this by consensus anymore.
We should. You know, change the structure and this should be done by like I don't know what rights I have to do that.
We don't have like a bylaws like well, I mean we just kind of get along and So it seems somewhat.
So, to, to kind of. I call it hamstring ourselves. But. If that's what you guys want to do, it's fine.
Do you have another suggestion?
Okay.
Hey, my, suggestion is what it was, you know. Last time and maybe even the time before.
I'm just so frustrated that We, we have. Nothing to work with. And I think the only The only way to get around this is I and I don't again politics or not my strong point but.
We need to have a bill written or the governor has to do something. To change. What we're doing here to make if the legislature and the administration think What we're doing here is important.
They have to act and treat us like that. And no offense to Christina or Aldo, but.
Like we need. Facilitators. We need somebody, okay, this is how we're gonna operate.
These are the members and we're going to use Robert's book of rules and we're going to We're gonna have resources and we heard you and you said you need data, we're gonna figure out how to get data.
And we're, you know, it's kind of just like.
Throw us in the room to make it look good. You know. Politically look we created this group but Now we can ignore.
We don't we don't need them and this I've kind of talked around to different people.
I say very, very common situation. What we are dealing with. Very, very common for. This type of thing to occur.
And a pease of. Of. Societal, public, you know, political. Facade of look what we we care about.
Get a bunch of people together and waste their time and then, you know, eventually we all get disinterested or.
Fed up and with or whatever and then and then it just kind of
Tapers off and and so I'm really looking for that engagement from somebody. Where there's, there's money, there's.
Facilitation and it takes all of this stuff that we're talking about and you know, makes our work.
Useful and and beneficial. And, and everybody knows that it's going to be that at the end.
So that's my suggestion, but who who writes that bill or does the governor say I'm gonna you know We're gonna redo this or this is what I don't know who and how that all happens.
But as of right now, we don't we don't have the structure behind us, the mandate behind us.
To be able to work effectively. My, that's my, what I believe is the solution and with my lack of experience in politics is probably wrong.
But.
Dave, I served on a local level for 5 years. I also did work with the state legislature in your perception is 100% correct.
And I think I brought up similar concerns that the legislators say we did our job. We're done.
That is the way politics work. I don't care if you're talking about the town of Makes the county the state legislature on up.
They tend to they tend to pass something pass it off to the legislative branch of government and ignore it. After that.
So I understand your frustration and I'm, I'm very similar with David and being frustrated the way this was set up.
I'm still hopeful it can be changed to where it's a little more meaningful. I personally believe a lot of damage was done by this bill.
It was some good done too. It would be nice to see it changed and to be something better.
Personal perception. But if there's not a way to engage or if the different subcommittees that oversee this aren't interested in yet we're wasting our time.
So David, I do understand your frustration completely.
I think for the role of This committee with the authority we have through Senate Bill 2187.
In a lot of ways.
Our best opportunity right now is to figure out ways that we can most effectively work. Especially within, you know, the restraint of sunshine laws.
To as what they call gather and analyze data and other information regarding wages and working conditions, the bad workers.
As effectively as possible and I I certainly understand the frustration of things around ag labor and the wheels of democracy in general.
Being somebody that works in every day too. But I think for today. The best thing we can do is come up with some ways that we aren't hamstring ourselves and we're being efficient.
And maybe having a rule of one week ahead of time will slow us down. But that's kind of I think the discussion at hand is how can we best bit within sunshine laws and part of the where I was coming from with this was.
I've felt a little. Ignorant as far as what all we can do ahead of time and I wanna make sure I'm living up to being the responsibility for me being a co-chair.
And then also how we kind of can build some work outside of our meetings is compliant. So maybe it's not a week at a time.
Maybe it's 2 days ahead of time. But I do think from what I remember, we actually have to have this posted publicly before the meeting.
So. We do have to set some type of deadline from what I understand of the rules.
Maybe a week is 2. Much. Is it? People's attendants that are, you know, coming, I think, cut it down.
It's just like have a hold on your calendar, but maybe you're not gonna come. Yeah, that's true.
People's attendants that are, you know, coming, I think, cut it down. It's just like, have a hold on your you know, sunshine as far as the public being able to see what we do.
There's no reason why we can't work off this document throughout the month, right? In between meetings, as long as it's publicly available.
So.
So, okay, so the is the proposal so there's a draft agenda out there or the The agenda for all meetings.
Is out there the proposed agenda. People can add to that. Agenda. And then if.
If something has suggests the topic for the agenda or a speaker for the agenda and another member of the committee.
Does not agree with that. They say that somehow on the agenda like as a comment and then When that happens, if somebody is not in agreement with that particular topic or speaker, then that it doesn't necessarily become an agenda item like that.
It becomes an agenda item for discussion. I guess, right? It could be or just doesn't make the agenda.
We can have a space in the agenda for contested agenda items and then talk about at the meeting and then if there can be consensus for the next meeting then it makes it on the next agenda.
So obviously that speaker wouldn't be invited to that meeting but the discussion of whether that's gonna take place would have a place on the agenda it seems like. I mean, maybe I guess you're right.
Doesn't have to be because To me it allows some level of consensus without anybody totally trying to steer the you know the direction of the group.
Based on our own personal. Point of view and it's still allows for open discussion. Maybe it's a month delay, but.
Okay. Yeah, I think. The goal is to set up that structure in that process. For the meetings.
So I think that's fair what you're proposing. Hello. And, oh, David responding back to your thoughts too.
There's no reason why. In this year's recommendations, we can say, hey, we.
Believe that there needs to be a statutory change provide. More support for this committee to do its work. So.
It doesn't, it doesn't matter what we say in the report, Dan. Nobody's reading it.
Well, that's what we're trying to figure out.
Who cares what we write? Send them a blank piece of paper. Send him the text of crime and punishment.
Do, right, it doesn't matter what we say in the report. It is. Not valued.
It is useless. The time and money that we are all putting into this, including our taxpayers to have Christina sit here to have Aldo sit here to have Eric sit here.
Is all wasted. No one is using what we are doing here.
Well, I agree that it's only as valuable as How it is used. This is a public.
We do have the power to request. Hey, hearing. That is something that we could request. Also, this is a public document that can be used by anybody.
Farmers Union Project, CFBGA, Joe Citizen. Can you use this to advocate?
At the legislature. 2, create change.
Outside of this committee.
And so that's where I guess, you know, hopefully that's not me, but hopefully somebody can.
Can do that, right? That's, I guess that's you, that's Rocky Mountain Farmers Union.
I don't know who that is. But. Thanks for making me feel slightly better that it's not completely useless.
But it's only, you know, like 1% useful. Now, you know, I, you, you get my point.
I do.
Like, thank you. You're, you're right. You know, and You know, we're doing good work.
We're trying. But it's just not. It's not rewarding, it's not, you know, we're not, we've got to get somewhere and if that means we gotta go to Daniel and I remember you know, talking with her about 2187 and saying You know, she's like, well, one day maybe you'll need me and I, you know, I
don't really appreciate her and, but maybe I've got to go to her and say. You know, we need this.
Can you write this bill? You know, and I've been, you know, I blame Senate leadership for the way they let it go and how, you know, and kind of where we are.
And I'm trying to think, well, what do we do and how do we fix this? And I'm with Galen, like.
How can we get out of the trap? And into the. To the, you know, something meaningful, the drought task force, I think is our.
Brian contemporary thing that we can use. To show the the legislature, the administration like look what you did there.
And look what you're doing here. And there is a legislation being written right now. Or proposed or whatever.
Because of the work of the Drought Task Force.
There is none. There is nothing going on because of what we did.
Nobody cared. Nobody said, oh, we gotta get these people data. Can't do their work without data.
Well, I appreciate you sharing your opinion because you're right. I don't think any of us want to fall in the trap of just
Spending. What is it? 24HA year. Together in addition to any side work.
And have it not go anywhere. So I do agree that we do need to have discussions about. How to make this an effective tool.
Across the board
David, I hear you and I appreciate your position. I think we've all been frustrated one time or another because I know even as coach here I have to confirm with what Dan said earlier as a co-chair and not having it with the restrictions of the sunshine law we're having to maneuver around that and it's been it's been a challenge and I'll accept that on for on
my behalf, but I think moving forward, given the time, it's 1119, I think we should probably talk about you brought up Ally Hill.
I would think this is the perfect time we did request for additional data. Let's start asking those presenters to come and meet with.
This committee and share information. That was one of the recommendations that we have speakers. We have to, we have to.
Agree that they're credible or that we're all comfortable with that. David, you brought Ally Hill and I think Joe, you also.
You also advocated to have her come present to this group.
Yes, I did. And, I agree. With all that, you know, Rome wasn't built in a day.
Draw data as you've had, you know, 10 to 20 years worth of data. We don't have any and as time goes along and data starts coming in and And the same starts to come together.
I think, we have to be a little more patient. Just the way I kind of feel about it.
Yeah, I'm up for Elle Hill and Whoever else may come in. Whether, whatever, viewpoint or expert, we can get, supply data and as time goes on, put that together and hopefully be able to relay that in person to the.
Community which Daniels sits on and Maybe we can make a difference that way.
I also agree with Dan on the public comment. I know a lot of producers paid attention to Let's put out in the CFPGA newsletter.
I wasn't much, but there was a link to the document and I know a lot of people read it.
So, On either side or whatever side there might be out there so I think information that what we're doing here is getting out there and we've been able to build some bridges here and that.
To me speaks miles in progress compared to where we were before and it all started. And where we are now personally, I think I feel a lot better about it.
I'm glad to be here.
So can we get consensus that we would like, Ally Hill at our next meeting and then maybe down the road have another presenter come to provide information.
Okay, and the reason I'm saying that so that we can get her on the agenda and someone can reach out and invite her for our next meeting, but let's have that discussion.
I am certainly in favor of inviting her. She's solid academic. Record. I reached out to her about the study already and she was at least willing to answer some of my probing questions but I think it would be good to have her at a meeting so we can really discuss everything in detail.
Well, if we're gonna invite somebody with. With that type of background, I mean, I would rather invite Phil Martin.
Who's, has more experience than Alley Hill in this area. But. I mean, I guess either one is fine.
I'm just trying to confirm whether, are we talking about at the next quarterly? The meeting as a whole like the entire group or because That's what you said he was talking about the wages right that study was I mean I know she's done other studies and looked into other other issues, but and as Phil Martin as well.
And so I would suggest for Martin. But I would also wanted to clarify like what we're inviting them to talk about because they do have.
They look at a lot of different things. So if we're talking labor conditions, we're talking wages.
Then maybe it should be to that particular subcommittee. Can we do both? And by both of them.
This isn't a Jennifer, at by any means and and
I feel like. I see this happen with politics like where the president can't meet with somebody because it might look bad or whatever.
My take is, invite. You know, without wasting all of our time, but invite everyone and let's.
Build relationship. Report, bridges, whatever you will. I don't know who Phil Martin is, but sounds like I need to.
Right? Sounds like the committee.
No, well, I mean, he's her predecessor. I think he's her mentor.
I think he trained her.
Oh. You know, if what I'm looking for is
Ali, can you help our committee understand better? How to fill the holes. Can we work with you?
Are you able to help us answer questions? And and get her in front of everyone so everyone can say well I don't trust her or even if she does get us an answer, it's no good.
And the same thing would be with, Phil Martin or anyone, but. The idea is to get them here and Here them out, listen to them and see.
What? They're able to offer us. Ally Hill may not come. Like, we, it's great to say, oh yeah.
Right.
Doesn't mean she has time. Or she cares or feel the same thing or anyone but I, in my mind, I'll like What's it hurt?
To to have her come talk about. Per ag labor statistic. California thing that we all talked about and get a better understanding.
Of what it what it can mean or what it. And mean, etc. We don't have to put that in our report.
Right? I don't think just cause she came to mean doesn't mean Ali. Bill reported that workers are getting their wages cut.
You know in California and that's what you know but like we don't I don't think we have to be scared of something like that it's just
Simple information gathering, rapport, building. And
Right. Yeah, no, I'm just trying to, I think we need to clarify what the ask is.
Because they It will not. And so that's why I was trying to confirm for myself. Are we asking them to come to this meeting as a whole?
Like when this group meets us these quarterly meetings or the subcommittees and what are we asking them to come to talk about?
Is it like California? So that's what I think we need to. We need all be on the same page about before we ask.
Oh, I don't know. It seems like it'd be the same for committee or, So, either one.
I mean, we always discuss the same things anyway at either one. So when we're all there, so.
It's not wrong.
Might as well, just to. Let's do it. You know ASAP so we get the ball rolling little bit faster I suppose but I'd be willing to hear from both of them.
I would propose that we invite Ally to speak specifically. To that report that she released as far as.
Over time pay, impacts. Across the ag industry in California and then any other insight that she can provide as far as potential overtime impacts to the ag sector in Colorado.
And that's impact the workers and employers and. Competition between states and everything else that they might be able to provide.
It still has. Inside, I absolutely support. Even broadening since it sounds like he has a more established.
Breath of research.
So when we had Ali as the wage subcommittee and then had Bill. At the Are we invite both?
I mean, they're both really busy, neither of them are focused in Colorado. Any more? I mean, I know how they worked really closely with Adrian Card for a while.
But I, I don't think she's in Colorado anymore. And so we can invite both and see which one of them comes.
Or I mean, I think, I think it makes sense to just invite them to the. To the meeting to the group.
As a whole that to get a sense of what kind of data they do have access to. And to ask those questions.
Of that. I mean, they're economists, right? And so I think that we could ask those questions to either one of them.
And that cover kind of all of our, the labor conditions and wage stuff. And then they can kind of let us know what they have and letting them know, right?
The reason I think we're inviting him is. Prompted it was this the articles that they've been doing one over time.
I.
But I'm sure that they have their information to share.
I would. Say that we, we may have to. Work around their schedules if we care.
Or, you know, if we're desperate, you know, they may. Not fit our scheduling.
And if we value what they have to say and want to hear them, we might have to. Have another meeting or allow them to say well this is when I'm available.
And I'd be happy to meet with your group and then get that. That up and maybe make it an extra meeting.
Outside of our kind of standing meetings. And or be nimble. In the the committee. Split meetings to maybe say, okay, we're gonna have some.
Invitees this day and we're gonna take the first 20 or 30min and so instead of having an hour each committee it turns into 40min each committee.
It with a you know 40min in the beginning for something but
So we heard about inviting both Bill and Ali to either subcommittee or a the full board committee. Is everybody okay with with inviting both?
Yes.
I think it's a great idea. Yeah, and to be clear, I was just saying, invite, both to see if one or the other could come, but not because, well, I mean, I don't know, I just cause feels like the guru of like add labor economics.
Like that's my understand, right? And Ally, I think is newer and she worked under him where she studied under him.
And so I was saying, you know, he may not be available, she might be or vice versa, but.
But that was the reason I was throwing it out there because of their schedules and because we have these timeframes but But yeah, I mean, maybe they're.
I don't know if we need them both. I think we probably just need one of them but
But the chances of getting one of them. Might be better. We just invite both. So.
Okay.
Well, here's the thing that bothers me. Ali's study is an actual study done through Very credible, definitely not right wing.
Definitely left wing. School of Economics in California. And yet she still came up with the results she came up with.
I don't know Phil's currently doing any actual research on the on the modern condition. What's going on?
I don't know that he isn't either. I'd rather hear about an actual study than I would hear about an opinion.
That is based on something that wasn't tried until recently. I also know there's studies going on in Oregon, the study going on Washington, one in New York that I don't know when they'll come out or if they ever do come out.
Washington. Has a nasty habit of squashing things they don't like. What they say. I would prefer Ali.
That's an actual study and it's previewed, it's published.
It's not an opinion. Let me put it to you that way. It's an actual study.
It has more validity in my mind.
And I don't know anything about Phil, but I haven't seen anything. I've seen Ali steady come across period.
Haven't seen anything about Phil. Ever democracy peer review.
So I had that's my concern. I still, it might be great having, probably as insight that I don't have.
I think we ought to have both.
What if we invite them, we, we send an invitation to both Ali and to Phil and give him the 3 dates of our regular subcommittee meetings and our.
Oh, board meeting to see what day they're available. And then we could accommodate their schedule though.
That would be my recommendation. See who's available. You. Okay, yeah, and if we need to set a special meeting based on their schedule.
Work together and figure out a time. And I think they work closely enough together that they'll probably decide like figure out like who schedule or who's best to speak on it too you know who has more relevant.
Correct knowledge or whatever. So we all have to be in agreement with everybody online okay with that proposal.
Yes, from Hunter.
Yes. Who's gonna do that? The committee chairs or who's gonna contact him?
Hunter, you're always our workforce since you've been in such. I am wondering if you're willing if not I'm happy to.
I can reach out to both of them. Yeah. Yeah, I can reach out to them.
Thank you. Do you have a date? I was gonna, I mean, I could too, because I've been in touch with Phil Martin and her.
But if you want, Yeah.
I certainly don't want to and I would be sort of cold calling Phil. So if you have a relationship with him.
That works well for me.
Oh, there you go. But unless you come from the chairs though, like you're the chair of the committee.
Ha ha!
But it's to the full committee meeting, right? Either, So Jennifer will take on that.
Thank you, Jennifer.
Thank you. Yeah, we got something to accomplish. Okay.
No, if she if it's
I suppose Jennifer has to upload her email to the thing. So she's gonna write an email to them and say, we want you to come beyond this committee.
And she's doing the work of the committee and that's. All subject to
How do I do that? She, from what I understand, she only needs to if she's including another committee member.
She can do any independent work.
Yeah, but
Boy, she's doing the work of the committee, right? We all just, will you please do this?
Okay, so not.
It's about communication between community numbers. So yeah, agreed and it's also logistical, so I wouldn't see a need to here.
Okay.
Well, if you guys want, I can do that. I could put my email in her response.
Yeah, don't need I'm looking to kind of understand these rules better. And so if that's out, that's great.
Thank you, Christina.
Not necessary for me to be clear. Like I'm, I'm fine with it not. If it doesn't have to be.
I was doing him.
And that covers a state for the next meeting. Is there anything else? I think we covered everything on our agenda.
We do have at least a speaker for the next one, hopefully for the next meeting. Anything else any anyone would like to cover?
Before we adjourn today.
I think my hope is that over the next 3 weeks, we will each individually kinda look at the. Recommendations we brought forward last year and populate.
The draft agendas. For for things that can be discussed during subcommittee meetings. And I think
I would like just to continue to look at the Fair Food program. I don't know. We can invite somebody from there to.
Talk a little bit. At some point.
Do you think that would be more appropriate for Working conditions, wages for full committee. Man, they kind of cover everything.
Yeah, I, I just think it is good for all of the people here to get. Exposed to the work they're doing and I get my thought is.
That.
My farm is the Fair Foods. Certified farm. And.
As it relates to wages and working conditions on farms. They're coming and interviewing is a rigorous process.
That is designed. To a coerced responses and ensure that worker voices are being. They're authentic and they're real, which is a big concern of this.
Group or the situation. And so it's a. In my mind, I perceive it as a silver bullet.
For producers and labor advocates. To. Have real results.
In improving conditions where abuses are happening. And giving. You know, the producers who are are good producers the pat on the back and the clout that they deserve.
To be recognized as good employers. And, and so. I think.
Now.
If we can if we could dig into that, you know, maybe our. Would recommend the state look into something or you know I don't know where it could lead but I I'm a believer that it's a a way to avoid nasty policy legislation things.
Yet. Have positive impacts on. Worker conditions.
Actually, I think that I'd probably propose we kind of follow the same. Line of thinking we did with Ali and Phil is we would invite Somebody from the organization would probably either be judge Laura Great asbed or the person that they hired for Colorado.
I'm assuming and let them choose. Who they feel would be the best representative. Would we wanna try to put that in the next?
Submitting meeting or would we wanna put that in the next?
Full committee meeting in 3 months.
Or do we just do 3 days to navigate it?
That's You're the masters of the agenda.
The better for me, right? I mean, there's a lot of work to be done sooner the better.
I think it's important. I mean, there's a lot of work to be done. Sooner the better. I think it's important.
I think it' you know, but all ultimately that's That's why you and Ben are chairs and I'm not.
Do you have contact with them?
Does everybody have a problem if I do?
No.
I would just also encourage you to try to get someone from their auditing team. To attend, I was able to speak with him and I feel like they They were sort of doing that verification process.
That David described. And I think they can speak to it in good detail.
Okay, and everybody okay with that? Yes. And also this is important information for all of you and anybody listening to this recording.
We're tuned in right now. We are organizing a breakout session at the CFPGA conference.
I believe on the 20 seventh. Of February and it is a social responsibility worker driven or work legitimate social responsibility programs.
We all have a representative from the Fair Food Program. Will have a representative from the equitable food initiative.
Will have a representative from USDA, one of the 2 people that created the farm labor stabilization pilot program that was recently released.
And I'm currently still looking for. Potentially a representative from. Ag worker union if anybody has any contacts.
I think we're a little lean in Colorado, but, if it's either somebody from flock or from, you know, farm workers, would be, I would love to be in touch with them to kind of round out a panel.
I wish I could help, but I don't have any contacts with those folks.
Sure. Yeah, I mean, I just have flocker. And I know it's not ad workers, but there's probably connections with, you know, either.
And I know it's not ad workers, but there's probably connections with, you know, a, you know, it's not ad workers, but there's probably connections with, you know, what, you know, like, commercial food workers as well as AFLCIO, you know, kind of in the same family.
So. Sophia. So.
Thank you.
Does anybody else have anything else for today?
I just want to note that I made the draft agenda for the next 2 subcommunities, sets of subcommittee meetings and the full advisory committee meeting.
So if anybody wants to add anything or any suggestions, those are. Available in this folder already.
Thank you. I just wanted to know, I know, IS not here today, so maybe today's on the best day for this conversation, but.
Facilitating our needs to be mindful of the interpreter and allowing for like valuable participation in Spanish just because I think we go really quickly and I'm also guilty of this.
So just something to know and maybe we can check in with other people if you can make it next meeting.
I know. But like I'm wondering, is that maybe a reason why? Yeah, it's like.
Yeah, he has a minutes is, you know, because yeah, I know him separately and he's very, right?
And so I wonder if yeah, if there's a reason like the lack of being able to fully participate has impacted his.
Just prioritization, yeah, of these meetings as you know. Seeing it as being important enough for where he has a voice.
So it could be like the whole. Circular problem.
Thank you for that. I'm gonna reach out to him too. Wait, can I? I can reach out to him about logistics.
Anything else? Anybody online have anything else to share?
Christina, good luck. Best of luck to you. Thank you for all your support.
Thank you. Yeah, 37 weeks. So we're getting close.
Congratulations.
Yes, congratulations.
We appreciate all your support. Eric, we look forward to working with you. Thank you. Thank you.
I think with that we can adjourn the meeting. Have a good rest of your day. Good rest of your week.
Bye now. Bye.